## Resque Bus

This gem uses Redis and Resque to allow simple asynchronous communication between apps.

### Example

Application A can publish an event

    # config
    ResqueBus.redis = "192.168.1.1:6379"

    # business logic
    ResqueBus.publish("user_created", "id" => 42, "first_name" => "John", "last_name" => "Smith")
    
    # or do it later
    ResqueBus.publish_at(1.hour.from_now, "user_created", "id" => 42, "first_name" => "John", "last_name" => "Smith")

Application B is subscribed to events

    # config
    ResqueBus.redis = "192.168.1.1:6379"
    
    # initializer
    ResqueBus.dispatch("app_b") do
      # processes event on app_b_default queue
      # subscribe is short-hand to subscribe to your 'default' queue and this block with process events with the name "user_created"
      subscribe "user_created" do |attributes|
        NameCount.find_or_create_by_name(attributes["last_name"]).increment!
      end
      
      # processes event on app_b_critical queue
      # critical is short-hand to subscribe to your 'critical' queue and this block with process events with the name "user_paid"
      critical "user_paid" do |attributes|
        CreditCard.charge!(attributes)
      end

      # you can pass any queue name you would like to process from as well IE: `banana "peeled" do |attributes|`
      
      # and regexes work as well. note that with the above configuration along with this regex,
      # the following as well as the corresponding block above would both be executed
      subscribe /^user_/ do |attributes|
        Metrics.record_user_action(attributes["bus_event_type"], attributes["id"])
      end
      
      # the above all filter on just the event_type, but you can filter on anything
      # this would be _any_ event that has a user_id and the page value of homepage regardless of bus_event_type
      subscribe "my_key", { "user_id" => :present, "page" => "homepage"} do
        Mixpanel.homepage_action!(attributes["action"])
      end
    end

Applications can also subscribe within classes using the provided `Subscriber` module. 

    class SimpleSubscriber
      include ResqueBus::Subscriber
      subscribe :my_method
  
      def my_method(attributes)
        # heavy lifting
      end
    end

The following is equivalent to the original initializer and shows more options:

    class OtherSubscriber
      include ResqueBus::Subscriber
      application :app_b

      subscribe :user_created
      subscribe_queue :app_b_critical, :user_paid
      subscribe_queue :app_b_default, :user_action, :bus_event_type => /^user_/
      subscribe :homepage_method, :user_id => :present, :page => "homepage"

      def user_created(attributes)
        NameCount.find_or_create_by_name(attributes["last_name"]).increment!
      end

      def user_paid(attributes)
        CreditCard.charge!(attributes)
      end

      def user_action(attributes)
        Metrics.record_user_action(attributes["bus_event_type"], attributes["id"])
      end

      def homepage_method
        Mixpanel.homepage_action!(attributes["action"])
      end
    end


The subscription block is run inside a Resque worker which needs to be started for each app.

    $ rake resquebus:setup resque:work
    
The incoming queue also needs to be processed on a dedicated or all the app servers.

    $ rake resquebus:driver resque:work
    
If you want retry to work for subscribing apps, you should run resque-scheduler
    
    $ rake resquebus:driver resque:scheduler

### Heartbeat

We've found it useful to have the bus act like cron. Triggering timed jobs throughout the system. Resque Bus calls this a heartbeat.
It uses resque-scheduler to trigger the events. You can enable it in your Rakefile.

    # resque.rake
    namespace :resque do
      task :setup => [:environment] do
        ResqueBus.heartbeat!
      end
    end

Or add it to your `schedule.yml` directly

    resquebus_heartbeat:
      cron: "* * * * *"
      class: "::ResqueBus::Heartbeat"
      queue: resquebus_incoming
      description: "I publish a heartbeat_minutes event every minute"

It is the equivalent of doing this every minute

seconds = minutes * (60)
hours   = minutes / (60)
days    = minutes / (60*24)

now     = Time.at(seconds)

attributes = {}


    now = Time.now
    seconds = now.to_i
    ResqueBus.publish("hearbeat_minutes", {
      "epoch_seconds" => seconds,
      "epoch_minutes" => seconds / 1.minute,
      "epoch_hours"   => seconds / 1.hour,
      "epoch_days"    => seconds / 1.day,
      "minute"        => now.min
      "hour"          => now.hour
      "day"           => now.day
      "month"         => now.month
      "year"          => now.year
      "yday"          => now.yday
      "wday"          => now.wday
    })

This allows you do something like this:

    ResqueBus.dispatch("app_c") do
      # runs at 10:20, 11:20, etc
      subscribe "once_an_hour", 'bus_event_type' => 'heartbeat_minutes', 'minute' => 20 do |attributes|
        Sitemap.generate!
      end
      
      # runs every five minutes
      subscribe "every_five_minutes", 'bus_event_type' => 'heartbeat_minutes' do |attributes|
        next unless attributes["epoch_minutes"] % 5 == 0
        HealthCheck.run!
      end
      
      # runs at 8am on the first of every month
      subscribe "new_month_morning", 'bus_event_type' => 'heartbeat_minutes', 'day' => 1, hour' => 8, 'minute' => 0,  do |attributes|
        next unless attributes["epoch_minutes"] % 5 == 0
        Token.old.expire!
      end
    end


### Compatibility

ResqueBus can live along side another instance of Resque that points at a different Redis server.
    
    # config
    Resque.redis = "192.168.1.0:6379"
    ResqueBus.redis = "192.168.1.1:6379"

If no Redis instance is given specifically, ResqueBus will use the Resque one.

    # config
    Resque.redis = "192.168.1.0:6379"

That will use the default (resque) namespace which can be helpful for using the tooling. Conflict with queue names are unlikely. You can change the namespace if you like though.

    # config
    Resque.redis = "192.168.1.0:6379"
    ResqusBus.redis.namespace = :get_on_the_bus


### Local Mode

For development, a local mode is also provided and is specified in the
configuration.

    # config
    ResqueBus.local_mode = :standalone
    or 
    ResqueBus.local_mode = :inline

Standalone mode does not require a separate resquebus:driver task to be running to process the
incoming queue. Simply publishing to the bus will distribute the incoming events 
to the appropriate application specific queue.  A separate resquebus:work task does 
still need to be run to process these events

Inline mode skips queue processing entirely and directly dispatches the
event to the appropriate code block. 


### TODO

* There are a few spots in the code with TODO notes
* Make this not freak out in development without Redis or when Redis is down
* We might not actually need to publish in tests
* Add some rspec helpers for the apps to use: should_ post an event_publish or something along those lines
* A synchronous version will be needed for several use cases. Make it so that an event can go in real-time to one subscriber and still be async to the rest.
* Should this use resque-retry or should they jsut go into the failure queue?
    
Copyright (c) 2011 Brian Leonard, released under the MIT license
